add 6.5.2 release notes (#13273)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.5.2.md

    在升级 TiCDC 集群到 v6.5.2 或更高的 v6.5.x 版本时，如果使用 Avro 同步的表包含 `FLOAT` 类型数据，请在升级前手动调整 Confluent Schema Registry 的兼容性策略为 `None`，使 changefeed 能够成功更新 schema。否则，在升级之后 changefeed 将无法更新 schema 并进入错误状态。

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - (dup): release-6.1.6.md > 提升改进> TiDB - Prepared Plan Cache 支持缓存 BatchPointGet 计划 [#42125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42125) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 改进提升> TiDB - Index Join 支持更多的 SQL 格式 [#40505](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40505) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
    - 将 Index Merge Reader 中的一些 Log 等级从 Info 降低为 Debug [#41949](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41949) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - 优化带 limit 的 range partition table 的 distsql concurrency 设置，降低查询延迟 [#41500](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/41500) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)

+ TiKV

    - note 1
    - note 2

+ PD

    - note 1
    - note 2

+ TiFlash

    - Reduce CPU consumption of task scheduling during TiFlash reads [#6495](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6495) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

>     - Improve performance of data import from BR and TiDB Lightning to TiFlash with default parameters [#7272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7272) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Improve performance of data import from BR and TiDB Lightning to TiFlash with default configurations [#7272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7272) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)
```

---

# TiDB 6.5.2 Release Notes

Release date: April x, 2023

TiDB version: 6.5.2

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.5.2#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

- (dup): release-7.0.0.md > # 行为变更 * TiCDC 修复了 Avro 编码 `FLOAT` 类型数据错误的问题 [#8490](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8490) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    在升级 TiCDC 集群到 v6.5.2 或更高的 v6.5.x 版本时，如果使用 Avro 同步的表包含 `FLOAT` 类型数据，请在升级前手动调整 Confluent Schema Registry 的兼容性策略为 `None`，使 changefeed 能够成功更新 schema。否则，在升级之后 changefeed 将无法更新 schema 并进入错误状态。

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - (dup): release-6.1.6.md > 提升改进> TiDB - Prepared Plan Cache 支持缓存 BatchPointGet 计划 [#42125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42125) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 改进提升> TiDB - Index Join 支持更多的 SQL 格式 [#40505](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40505) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)

>     - 将 Index Merge Reader 中的一些 Log 等级从 Info 降低为 Debug [#41949](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41949) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
>     - 优化带 limit 的 range partition table 的 distsql concurrency 设置，降低查询延迟 [#41500](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/41500) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Lower some log levels in Index Merge Reader from `"info"` to `"debug"` [#41949](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41949) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Optimize the `distsql_concurrency` setting for Range partitioned tables with limits to reduce query latency [#41480](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41480) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
```

+ TiKV

    - note 1
    - note 2

+ PD

    - note 1
    - note 2

+ TiFlash

>     - 减少了 TiFlash 存储引擎的在读过程中的任务调度的 CPU 消耗 [#6495](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6495) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
>     - 显著提升默认参数下用 BR、Lightning 往 TiFlash 导入数据的性能 [#7272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7272) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Reduce CPU consumption for task scheduling during TiFlash reads [#6495](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6495) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Significantly improve performance of importing data from BR and TiDB Lightning to TiFlash with default parameters  [#7272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7272) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)
```

    - note 2

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note 1

    + TiCDC

>         -  增加 API 2.0 功能   [#8743](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8743) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Release TiCDC Open API v2.0 [#8743](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8743) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

        - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 支持在 redo applier 中拆分事务以提升 apply 吞吐，降低灾难场景的 RTO [#8318](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8318) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 支持在 redo log 里 apply DDL 事件 [#8361](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8361) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note 1

    + TiDB Lightning

        - (dup): release-6.6.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiDB Lightning - 支持导入带有 BOM header 的 CSV 数据文件 [#40744](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40744) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

    + Dumpling

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 修复缓存表执行新增列操作后，新增列值为 `NULL` 而非列的默认值的问题 [#42928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42928) @[lqs](https://github.com/lqs)
    - 修复分区特别多并且带有 TiFlash 副本的分区表在执行 `TRUNCATE TABLE` 时，出现写冲突导致 DDL 重试的问题 [#42940](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42940) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - 修复对于执行中的 `DROP TABLE` 操作，`ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` 的结果中缺少表名的问题 [#42268](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42268) @[tiancaiamao ](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - 修复读取 cgroup 信息出错导致 TiDB Server 无法启动的问题，报错信息为 "can't read file memory.stat from cgroup v1: open /sys/memory.stat no such file or directory" [#42659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42659) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复在分区表上执行修改列操作时，数据截断没有正确发出警告的问题 [#24427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24427) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    - (dup): release-6.1.6.md > Bug 修复> TiDB - 修复在使用 Cursor Fetch 且在 Execute、Fetch、Close 之间运行其它语句后，Fetch 与 Close 命令可能会返回错误结果或造成 TiDB Panic 的问题 [#40094](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40094) [@YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `INSERT IGNORE` 和 `REPLACE` 语句对不修改 value 的 key 没有加锁的问题 [#42121](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42121) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 TiFlash 执行中遇到生成列会报错的问题 [#40663](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40663) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当同一个 SQL 中出现多个不同的分区表时，TiDB 可能执行得到错误结果的问题 [#42135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42135) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复在开启 Prepared Plan Cache 的情况下，索引全表扫可能会报错的问题 [#42150](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42150) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复在开启 Prepared Plan Cache 时 Index Merge 可能得到错误结果的问题 [#41828](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41828) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

>     - 修复全局内存控制可能 Kill 内存使用量小于 `tidb_server_memory_limit_sess_min_size` 的 SQL 的问题 [#42662](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41828) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
>     - 修复分区表动态裁剪模式下 Index Join 可能发生 Panic 的问题 [#40596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40596) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 修复全局内存控制可能错误地 Kill 内存使用量小于 `tidb_server_memory_limit_sess_min_size` 的 SQL 的问题 [#42662](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41828) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
    - 修复分区表动态裁剪模式下 Index Join 可能导致 panic 的问题 [#40596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40596) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

+ TiKV

>     - 修复 tikv 解析 cgroup path 没有正确处理 ":" 符号的问题 [#14535](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/14535) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV does not resolve the ":" character correctly when parsing the cgroup path [#14538](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14538) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

+ PD

    - (dup): release-6.1.4.md > Bug 修复> PD - 修复 PD 可能会非预期地向 Region 添加多个 Learner 的问题 [#5786](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5786) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复了切换 Placement Rule 时可能存在的 leader 分布不均衡的问题 [#6195](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6195) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

+ TiFlash

    - (dup): release-6.1.6.md > Bug 修复> TiFlash - 修复 TiFlash 无法识别生成列的问题 [#6801](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6801) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复了 Decimal 除法在某些情况下最后一位未进位的问题 [#7022](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7022) @[LittleFall](https://github.com/LittleFall)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复了 Decimal 转换在某些情况下进位错误的问题 [#6994](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6994) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复了开启 new collation 后 TopN/Sort 算子结果可能出错的问题 [#6807](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6807) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

>     - 修复由于不兼容 CDC 导致 TiFlash 进程失败的问题 [#7212](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7212) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix TiFlash process failures due to TiCDC incompatibility [#7212](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7212) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - (dup): release-6.6.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复当 TiDB 集群不存在 PITR 备份任务时，`resolve lock` 频率过高的问题 [#40759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40759) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
        - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复了在 PITR 恢复过程中等待 split Region 重试的时间不足的问题 [#42001](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42001) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

    + TiCDC

> 
>         - 修复同步到对象存储时 partition 分隔符不生效问题 [#8581](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8581)
>         - 修复同步到对象存储场景下，发生表调度可能导致数据丢失问题  [#8256](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8256)
>         - 修复不可重入的 DDL 带来卡住的问题 [#8662](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8662)
>         - 修复同步到对象存储场景下，TiCDC 做扩缩容导致数据丢失问题 [#8666](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8666)
>         - 修复利用 cgroup 在部分场景内存限制不生效问题  [#8588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8588)
>         - 修复同步到对象存储场景下，TiCDC 做扩缩容导致数据丢失问题 [#8666](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8666)
>         - 修复Redo log 在 apply 时，特殊场景可能出现数据丢失的问题 [#8591](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8591)
>         - 采用 gomemlimit 防止 TiCDC 出现 OOM 问题[#8675](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8675)
>         - 修复同步到 Kafka( canal-json) 场景下，同步 float 类型字段出现精度丢失问题 [#8490](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8490)
>         - 采用 multi-statement 的方式优化批量做 update 场景下的同步性能   [#8057](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8057)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the partition delimiter does not work when TiCDC replicates data to object storage [#8581](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8581) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Fix the issue that table scheduling might cause data loss when TiCDC replicates data to object storage [#8256](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8256) @[zhaoxinyu](https://github.com/zhaoxinyu)
        - Fix the issue that non-reentrant DDL statements get stuck [#8662](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8662) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC scaling might cause data loss when TiCDC replicates data to object storage [#8666](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8666) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the memory limit of cgroup does not take effect in some scenarios  [#8588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8588) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
        - Fix the issue that data loss might occur in special cases during the apply of Redo log [#8591](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8591) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Introduce gomemlimit to prevent TiCDC from experiencing OOM issues [#8675](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8675) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
        - Use the multi-statement approach to optimize the replication performance in scenarios involving batch execution of `UPDATE` statements [#8057](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8057) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.5.2 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 6.5.2.
---

# TiDB 6.5.2 Release Notes

Release date: April x, 2023

TiDB version: 6.5.2

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.5.2#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

- (dup): release-7.0.0.md > # 行为变更 * TiCDC 修复了 Avro 编码 `FLOAT` 类型数据错误的问题 [#8490](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8490) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    在升级 TiCDC 集群到 v6.5.2 或更高的 v6.5.x 版本时，如果使用 Avro 同步的表包含 `FLOAT` 类型数据，请在升级前手动调整 Confluent Schema Registry 的兼容性策略为 `None`，使 changefeed 能够成功更新 schema。否则，在升级之后 changefeed 将无法更新 schema 并进入错误状态。

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - (dup): release-6.1.6.md > 提升改进> TiDB - Prepared Plan Cache 支持缓存 BatchPointGet 计划 [#42125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42125) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 改进提升> TiDB - Index Join 支持更多的 SQL 格式 [#40505](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40505) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Support caching the execution plan for BatchPointGet in Prepared Plan Cache [#42125](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42125) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Support more SQL formats for Index Join [#40505](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40505) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
```

>     - Change the level for some Index Merge Reader logs from `"info"` to `"debug"` [#41949](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41949) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Change the log level of some Index Merge readers from `"info"` to `"debug"` [#41949](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41949) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
```

>     - Optimize the `distsql_concurrency` setting for Range partitioned tables with limits to reduce query latency [#41480](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41480) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the `distsql_concurrency` setting for Range partitioned tables with Limit to reduce query latency [#41480](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41480) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
```

+ TiKV

    - note 1
    - note 2

+ PD

    - note 1
    - note 2

+ TiFlash

    - Reduce CPU consumption of task scheduling during TiFlash reads [#6495](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6495) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Improve performance of data import from BR and TiDB Lightning to TiFlash with default configurations [#7272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7272) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)
    - note 2

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note 1

    + TiCDC

>         - Release TiCDC Open API v2.0 [#8743](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8743) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Release TiCDC Open API v2.0 [#8743](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8743) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Introduce gomemlimit to prevent TiCDC from OOM issues [#8675](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8675) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
        - Use the multi-statement approach to optimize the replication performance in scenarios involving batch execution of `UPDATE` statements [#8057](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8057) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
```

>         - Introduce gomemlimit to prevent TiCDC from OOM issues [#8675](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8675) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Introduce `gomemlimit` to prevent TiCDC from OOM issues [#8675](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8675) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
```

        - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 支持在 redo log 里 apply DDL 事件 [#8361](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8361) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note 1

    + TiDB Lightning

        - (dup): release-6.6.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiDB Lightning - 支持导入带有 BOM header 的 CSV 数据文件 [#40744](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40744) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

    + Dumpling

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the issue that after a new column is added in the cache table, the value is `NULL` instead of the default value of the column [#42928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42928) @[lqs](https://github.com/lqs)
>     - Fix the issue of DDL retry caused by write conflict when executing `TRUNCATE TABLE` for partitioned tables with many partitions and TiFlash copies [#42940](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42940) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
>     - Fix the issue of missing table names in the result of `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` when the `DROP TABLE` operation is being executed [#42268](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42268) @[tiancaiamao ](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - Fix the issue that TiDB Server cannot start due to an error in reading the cgroup information and reports the following error message "can't read file memory.stat from cgroup v1: open /sys/memory.stat no such file or directory" [#42659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42659) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - Fix the issue that data truncation does not give correct warnings when you modify columns on a partitioned table [#24427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24427) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that after a new column is added in the cache table, the value is `NULL` instead of the default value of the column [#42928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42928) @[lqs](https://github.com/lqs)
    - Fix the issue of DDL retry caused by write conflict when executing `TRUNCATE TABLE` for partitioned tables with many partitions and TiFlash replicas [#42940](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42940) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue of missing table names in the `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` result when a `DROP TABLE` operation is being executed [#42268](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42268) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB server cannot start due to an error in reading the cgroup information with the error message "can't read file memory.stat from cgroup v1: open /sys/memory.stat no such file or directory" [#42659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42659) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that data truncation returns incorrect warnings when you modify columns on a partitioned table [#24427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24427) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

>     - (dup): release-6.1.6.md > Bug 修复> TiDB - 修复了生成执行计划过程中，因为获取的 InfoSchema 不一致而导致的 TiDB panic 的问题 [#41622](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41622) [@tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - (dup): release-6.1.6.md > Bug 修复> TiDB - 修复了使用 DDL 修改浮点类型时，保持长度不变且减少小数位后，旧数据仍然保持原样的问题 [#41281](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41281) [@zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
>     - (dup): release-6.1.6.md > Bug 修复> TiDB - 修复事务内执行 PointUpdate 之后，`SELECT` 结果不正确的问题 [#28011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28011) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
>     - (dup): release-6.1.6.md > Bug 修复> TiDB - 修复在使用 Cursor Fetch 且在 Execute、Fetch、Close 之间运行其它语句后，Fetch 与 Close 命令可能会返回错误结果或造成 TiDB Panic 的问题 [#40094](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40094) [@YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `INSERT IGNORE` 和 `REPLACE` 语句对不修改 value 的 key 没有加锁的问题 [#42121](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42121) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
>     - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 TiFlash 执行中遇到生成列会报错的问题 [#40663](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40663) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
>     - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当同一个 SQL 中出现多个不同的分区表时，TiDB 可能执行得到错误结果的问题 [#42135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42135) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
>     - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复在开启 Prepared Plan Cache 的情况下，索引全表扫可能会报错的问题 [#42150](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42150) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)
>     - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复在开启 Prepared Plan Cache 时 Index Merge 可能得到错误结果的问题 [#41828](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41828) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB panic occurs due to inconsistent InfoSchema being obtained when generating the execution plan [#41622](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41622) [@tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that when modifying the floating-point type using DDL to keep the length unchanged and reduce the decimal places, the old data still remains the same [#41281](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41281) [@zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - Fix the issue that after executing PointUpdate within a transaction, TiDB returns incorrect results for the SELECT statement [#28011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28011) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that, when using Cursor Fetch and running other statements among Execute, Fetch, and Close, the Fetch and Close commands might return incorrect results or cause TiDB to panic [#40094](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40094) [@YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that INSERT IGNORE and REPLACE statements do not lock keys that do not modify values [#42121](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42121) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash reports an error for generated columns during execution [#40663](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40663) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might produce incorrect results when different partitioned tables appear in a single SQL statement [#42135](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42135) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that full index scans might cause errors when prepared plan cache is enabled [#42150](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42150) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)
    - Fix the issue that IndexMerge might produce incorrect results when prepare plan cache is enabled [#41828](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41828) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
```

    - Fix the issue that global memory control might incorrectly kill SQL with memory usage less than `tidb_server_memory_limit_sess_min_size` [#42662](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41828) @[XuHuaiyu](https://github.com/XuHuaiyu)
    - Fix the issue that Index Join might cause panic in dynamic trimming mode of partition tables [#40596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40596) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

+ TiKV

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV does not resolve the `:` character correctly when parsing the cgroup path [#14538](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14538) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV does not correctly parse the `:` character when processing the cgroup path [#14538](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14538) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复了 Decimal 转换在某些情况下进位错误的问题 [#6994](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6994) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复了开启 new collation 后 TopN/Sort 算子结果可能出错的问题 [#6807](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6807) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - Fix the issue of TiFlash process failures due to TiCDC incompatibility [#7212](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7212) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - (dup): release-6.6.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复当 TiDB 集群不存在 PITR 备份任务时，`resolve lock` 频率过高的问题 [#40759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40759) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
        - (dup): release-7.0.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复了在 PITR 恢复过程中等待 split Region 重试的时间不足的问题 [#42001](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42001) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

    + TiCDC

>         - Fix the issue that the partition delimiter does not work when TiCDC replicates data to object storage [#8581](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8581) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the partition separator does not work when TiCDC replicates data to object storage [#8581](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8581) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

Reviewer 2: `enable-partition-separator` is used in https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/ticdc-changefeed-config

>         - Fix the issue that non-reentrant DDL statements get stuck [#8662](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8662) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the replication gets stuck due to non-reentrant DDL statements [#8662](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8662) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

        - Fix the issue that table scheduling might cause data loss when TiCDC replicates data to object storage [#8256](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8256) @[zhaoxinyu](https://github.com/zhaoxinyu)
        - Fix the issue that the replication gets stuck due to non-reentrant DDL statements [#8662](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8662) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC scaling might cause data loss when TiCDC replicates data to object storage [#8666](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8666) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>         - Fix the issue that the memory limit of cgroup does not take effect in some scenarios  [#8588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8588) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the memory limit of `cgroup` does not take effect in some scenarios  [#8588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8588) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
```

>         - Introduce gomemlimit to prevent TiCDC from experiencing OOM issues [#8675](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8675) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Introduce gomemlimit to prevent TiCDC from OOM issues [#8675](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8675) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
```

>         - Introduce gomemlimit to prevent TiCDC from OOM issues [#8675](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8675) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)
>         - Use the multi-statement approach to optimize the replication performance in scenarios involving batch execution of `UPDATE` statements [#8057](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8057) @[amyangfei](https://github.com/amyangfei)

Author: ```suggestion
```
